= Creating Subtitles from Scratch =

<<TableOfContents(3)>>

== Introduction ==

This documentation applies to Gaupol version 0.24 or later.

== By Interaction with the Built-In Video Player ==

Gaupol's built-in video player should provide necessary means to acquire subtitle start and end times as well as decipher the texts and various tools provided should help with necessary automatic post-processing. There are many possible work-flows for subtitling; here's one.

 1. Open Gaupol and create a blank document (''File'' / ''New'').

 2. Load the video file you wish to subtitle (''Tools'' / ''Load Video'').

 3. Play the video from start to finish. Press "J" (''Edit'' / ''Insert Subtitle At Video Position'') whenever someone starts speaking a new subtitle length piece. A new subtitle will be inserted with a three-second duration.

 4. Go over the video one subtitle at a time. Press "O" (''Video'' / ''Play Selection'') to play video of the selected subtitle. Write down what is said. Press "O" to play the subtitle again. Now press "K" (''Edit'' / ''Set End From Video Position'') when speaking of that particular subtitle ends. Split and merge subtitles (keys "S" and "M") where needed.

 5. When the whole video is subtitled, hit "H" (''Tools'' / ''Shift positions'') to correct for your reaction speed, e.g. if your reaction speed earlier has been half a second, shift all subtitles -0.5 seconds.

 6. Now all subtitles should match exactly what is spoken. You'll notice that short subtitles disappear too fast. Go to ''Tools'' / ''Adjust Durations''. Use at least minimum duration and gap and possibly lengthening to match reading speed to ensure that subtitles remain on screen long enough to be read.

 7. Done! Save your file! Share your work!

== Speech Recognition ==

[[Gaupol/SpeechRecognition|Speech Recognition]] might help, depending on the video source, with the spotting phase of the previous workflow, i.e. acquiring start and end times for subtitles.
